# ASSESSMENT 5: Interview Practice Questions

Answer the following questions.

First, without external resources. Challenge yourself to answer from memory.

Then, research the question to expand on your answer. Even if you feel you have answered the question completely on your own, there is always something more to learn. Write your researched answer in your OWN WORDS.

1. What does calling super do in a class?

Your answer: A super class is what i like to think of it as a parent of child of subclasses
ultimately it will have the default values

Researched answer: the super keyword refers to superclass (parent) objects.



2. What is a gem?

Your answer: A gem is a command to receive a code in a package

Researched answer: Gems are programs for the Ruby programming language. They are distributed by Ruby's package manager, which is called RubyGems, also known as "Graphical Environment Manager"

3. What is a relational database? Are there other kinds of databases?

Your answer: A relational database is used to crate, store and update information

Researched answer: A relational database management system (RDBMS) is a program used to create, update, and manage and yes they're more  data bases such as Object-oriented database, Hierarchical database, Network database.

4. What are primary keys? Why are they important? .

Your answer:i cant remember off the top of my head. But something along the lines of you cant change them

Researched answer: A primary key is used to ensure that data in the specific column is unique giving it an identification number like a drivers license. as well as update, restore and delete data from the database table primary key is important to ensure that a table record can always be  identified.

5. What are the HTTP verbs? What is each verb's corresponding CRUD action?

Your answer: HTTP verb is refers to POST, GET, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE and it corresponds with the crud action in create, read, update and delete.

Researched answer: The primary verbs for HTTP  are POST, GET, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE. These correspond to create, read, update, and delete, or CRUD operations, create, read, update and delete.

## Looking Ahead: Terms for Next Week

Research and define the following terms to the best of your ability.

1. RESTful routes: RESTful routing is a set of standards used in many different languages to create efficient, reusable routes. It aims to map HTTP methods (GET, POST, PATCH, DELETE) and CRUD actions (Create, Read, Update, Destroy) together in a conventional pattern.

2. Model validations: Model validation refers to the process of confirming that the model actually achieves its intended purpose. In most situations, this will involve confirmation that the model is predictive under the conditions of its intended use.

3. Params:
By using the params keyword, you can specify a method parameter that takes a variable number of arguments. The parameter type must be a single-dimensional array. No additional parameters are permitted after the params keyword in a method declaration, and only one params keyword is permitted in a method declaration

4. ERB:
ERB (or Ruby code generated by ERB ) returns a string in the same character encoding as the input string. When the input string has a magic comment, however, it returns a string in the encoding specified by the magic comment.

5. API: API stands for Application Programming Interface. In the context of APIs, the word Application refers to any software with a distinct function. Interface can be thought of as a contract of service between two applications. This contract defines how the two communicate with each other using requests and responses.
